---
layout: post
title: "AlterConf SF 2016"
tags:
 -
---

I attended [AlterConf SF](http://www.alterconf.com/conferences/san-francisco-ca)! 10am-5/6pm Interesting talks, lots of first-time speakers. The part that got me the most was probably the panel with bluecollar immigrant workers whose jobs support the tech industry.

## Other notes

Exploding offers (you must yes/no within a short time period) are bullshit because they try to force the interviewee to make a time-pressure decision, buttttttt companies don't want too many "live" offers out at the same time because what if all of them get accepted and then you have more employees than you planned to be able to pay? Good recruiters can work around required-exploding-offers by saying "this is an X-days exploding offer and let me know when to give it to you". Also it has been pointed out to me that, especially formore senior people, sometimes the exloding offer does not actually explode if they really like you. Also, if you are negotiating/changing various bits of the contract, the time window might reset with eveyr contract change.

## talk 1

- recently laid off from euro startup, wikipedian
- phillipines full time


post weekly summary tday!!!

case studies of products and their biases- specific companies-
nest,
quora topwriter open house



groovy build smoke tests

correlation ID as filter, ingoing and outgoing


rambling, not coherent narrative

orkut india brasil

talk 2-
support- they know how ot break it, because everyone tell sthem

zee and bev re here!

support talk-

people dont want to pack the maximum amount of support
even if you cant give them a raise, you can tel them that youre releasing something

@stephsnopek
@Kmanion

#alterconf wifi AsanaGuest manysmiles

talk 3: (last before lunch)
they pay speakers

amazon.com/diversity

-- lunch
yayyyy people!!!

radical queer dating app
bev yayyy! not launch yet
black twitter
famllar ooking guy in orange hoddie in the front row playing a game. andre?
neopets!!

what do I get out of altercnf? listening ot people. seeing people.

plovre captioning
i want specifics
howto spring security, howto integrate- maybe with a sample app- with Oauth.io or somesuch.
twitterrrrr

"why are mot things in english? i think thats strange"

2nd talk after lunch
30s asian male, online identity

canada, census

nice to see first time talks, helps you calibrate. I could do this. alterconf yass.

me todo sunday morning coffee at borderlands? 9am to 111am, games and people. or the one right next to 24th

"we shape the tools and thereafter they shape us"


third talk after lunch
applause for therapy!
black
mental health checkup
get through your shit. we all have shit

"hen they call you courageous and brave.." bad things are about to happen to you, unless
so i stopped reading the comments, which everyone should do

at home on the internet, twitter

argue with eggs onthe internet

dont wat to read them, cant ask them to stop, gotta keep fixing things
cant say that I managed well, i survived.

google salary survey wowww

"name too hard to pronounce"
good speaker yes?

self care interesting


recurse centerrrrrr do want :/

 0

Tilde talk!
pinterest, first dev job. not fired yet :)
"tired of doing emotional labor on behalf of a company"
"being the stirring-it-upp person that I am..."

leveraging lack of code ownership to just build it. yassss.

"folks in here understand what a sting is? I'm going to explain it anyway."

setting page like the junk drawer of any application
"he wouldnt even let me release it as an a/b experiment"
reorg!!

feature building

concerns, less att,
"leverage the chos that will inevitably be present in your organization to advance your social justice warrior adgenda"

1


pinterest talk, yayyyY!




devbootcamp empathy talk
empathy can be learned yes

chairs important - cant be me and thee against he
after talk, wakj to train ? lyft?
up to lafayette, then sf, laundry, yyay conf!
dinners?

tired? sleeps?
short weekend

questions that kassi asked - to th of you- what can you do to improve this situation-


talk: css vs my gender:

uncomforatble vs triggered, changed slides

"all of yall hre re super cute"  (naoh nudges me)
webll because this thing is that
i never assume that that includes me
and its like a reminder of all the nice things that I dont have, cant have I guess
is this how guys feel?
never push this post I guess
j

teh cool chairs

bitter maybe, could have not gone to an engineeering college which was full of guys

@attnjamie

"a real person! surprise! I am one!"
my card didnt come in teh mail??? I want my card!!!

 when does the consulting turn off? how can ou turn it back on again?

stimming
travel sustainable

internal directory, pronouns

"allow fo ryour own humanity"
"its not my job to feel better about a mistake that you made"
jigsaw pronouns?

TW improve code registry

gratitude journal?



2nd to last talk: fair hotels

bev went to a birthday party
I could totally talk here. topics?


hs 16, college, omg stuff
youtube for google



even if it was the problem (being a black woman)... grow othe rest of it. grow not blame.

concur hook into fair hotels? attributes external, hotels- plug in system- chrome plugin for concur?

check on dentist appt


add link to money request of alterconf

## A few cool people I met

- [cool person who TA'd at railsbridge](https://twitter.com/LisaVogtSF)
- [cool person who heard my feature flags talk](https://twitter.com/singgenberg)
- [cool person who pycon/OSB and old!ruby codebase fixings](https://twitter.com/chris_swenson)

I also got to chat with several people I know from other places and times at that was pretty great. :) :)
