---
layout: post
title: "SFrb"
tags:
 -
---


## Space notes

Maven link is a nice little space. I notice that they have a nice board games selection. Their pitch was unusually good, and of course they're hiring. We had more people than chairs. Talks started only fifteen minutes late. There is guest wifi but idunno the password

[Call for Proposals](http://tinyurl.com/sf-rb-cfp) link for SF.rb

CoC "because organizers can also be terrible"

It turns out that hashtg sfrb is actually "science fiction romance book" so we're using sfdotrb

First, the obligatory hosting (mavenlink) presentation

Loves bitcoin, hackathongs

# Talk 1

- He works at Omada Health
- Pair programming: "communicate or die"
- "You're the nicest tool I've ever met"

Doing it as a profession rather than as a hackathon brogrammer

# Interim pitch for RailsConf

Lacklan Hardy talks about RailsCamp

RubyCamp in teh Ctskill mountains, tell Aub!

# Talk 2: basic intro to reading cruby

Discussing array sort

Lots of references to the book Ruby Under a Microscope

Excessively basic

man qsort_r

"Everything is kind of important... but we have lots of servers, we have AWS< it's fine" gets a laugh from the audience

# Talk 3: "Stop Building Services"

Rachel from Github :)

[@rachelmeyers](http://twitter.com/rachelmeyers)

References Karl Popper on Falsifiabilty: is there evidence that could change your mind?

"All of our architecture questions should be based on falsifiable beliefs!"

"We should grow up and make decisions based on evidence"

"Github is a giant terrible monolithic rails app"

"We should pause to appreciate that this is the diagram of doom. When you see this, you should rethink all your life decisions"

"We created an ecosystem of services that mirrors our poorly-factored code"

Needing to mix microserrvices and libraries- is a sign that you drew the lines around the services incorrectly.

Jesse Toth blogpost: Easy Rewrites with Ruby and Science (of github permissions system)

"The user object was modified in many places."

"This is a failure. We created something much more dangerous."

"I was about to draw the diagram with my hands, but hold on..."

"It felt absurd, like I was bludgeoning you with network calls, but we were bludgeoning ourselves with network calls"

"Finding source code is tricky" ... I disagree. github global search within internal GHE or within org, or checkout-all?

"Although we avoided having to copy and paste, it came at a terrible price."

"Don't create more points of catastrophic failure!"

Build together the parts that will need to change together! (maybe remind yourself of this regularly)


