---
layout: post
title: "Cafe Week: Tues"
tags:
 -
---

#### Dream Corps / Empathy Network SQL

I signed a "I won't do bad things" form a bit back and now I have access to the DC email db for the purposes of helping them write better SQL queries for internal reporting- right now there are lot of UI-generated queries, which aren't as powerful as they'd like.

On the scale of "crushing responsibilities for other people's private information" I have had, this is fairly light, but all PII is a big deal and I don't forget that for a minute. 

How many users are on an email list with a certain tag name (ish)
```(mysql)
select core_tag.name, count(distinct core_user.id) as user_count
from core_user
         join core_subscription on core_subscription.user_id = core_user.id
         join core_action on core_action.user_id = core_user.id
         join core_page_tags on core_page_tags.page_id = core_action.page_id
         join core_tag on core_page_tags.tag_id = core_tag.id
where core_subscription.list_id = 11
-- and core_tag.name in ('name1', '...')
group by core_tag.name
order by user_count desc
```

This is fun because digging into a new db is always fun. It's my first time using Asana and it's been painless so far. 

The data lives in ActionKit which I haven't worked with before but it's plain mysql so it doesn't really matter- although there is a "reports" UI which seems a bit like a cross between Scratch and pandas.

[public DC actionkit db docs](https://act.thedreamcorps.org/docs/manual/developer/wmd.html)

One of the requests was "SQL language to pull tags that contain certain characters (ex. "@" for audience reporting)" which, unless I'm misunderstanding something, is... absurdly simple, just not functionality offered by the drag-n-drop query builder.  
```(mysql)
select distinct name from core_tag where name like '%@%' order by name
```

One of the best queries to run in a db you haven't worked with before, when you don't have actual db connection so you can't properly see all the tables at once:
```(mysql)
select COLUMN_NAME
from information_schema.columns
where table_schema = 'ak_dcorps'
order by table_name, ordinal_position
```

### Leetcode

I felt fragmented and distracted so I did some "easy" leetcode problems (still sometimes a pain if you're not in practice!) to settle my brain before digging into bigger projects. I still think that leetcode style problems are not how I personally would prefer to evaluate candidates, but the easy ones are soothing to do. I worked in ruby, since that's the language of my next job (and also I just really like it- although I do slip into python syntax sometimes and have to rewrite, oops)

#### Laptop setup (ad hoc)

Installed spotify

Set up a few more chrome profiles (a full setup will be ~10 but I don't need most of them often)

Setup global gitignore `git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore`

#### Watched the 1st 2020 prez debate

Not really code, but not really life-for-fun either. Worth mentioning. I watched the whole dang thing and some commentary afterwards. Predictably, it tanked my productivity for hours.

#### Grad school? Yikes, nah

I attended the [Virtual Idealist Grad School Fair](https://app.brazenconnect.com/app/events/aePxz/identify-peer-group#!identifyPeerGroup;eventCode=aePxz) and chatted with a few colleges. The process of getting grad school funding feels a lot like the process of trying to do taxes or buy a house- it requires a lot of mysterious knowledge and expertise which you struggle through and then regret. Anyway, I'm not seriously interested in grad school right now. Finding a professor to be your PhD advisor (with whom you would... suit) seems like a Very Hard Problem. 

#### Python and data

I lurked [Visualize It! Using Python to Bring Data to Life](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/visualize-it-using-python-to-bring-data-to-life-workshop-online-tickets-119182434871) the mapping libaries portion was most interesting especially the downloading maps to then put data onto (I've used pandas for work so that part wasn't new)

#### Management and Merit

I had my first ever [get-merit](https://www.get-merit.com/) call. It was really good! I have a whole blog post that needs to get edited into shape and posted about it. Basically I was gifted with 45 minutes of time with a person who does exactly what I want to do in my career- engineering management while still staying technical. 

Some snippets, unformed and unexplained
* Does this meeting/project/? have a definition of done" IT SHOULD (even if it's "we talked about gardening and now we are better at communicating each other")
* "If a team member references ‘them’, it should trigger your spider-senses immediately. Your job is to to unpack 'them' immediately. Who are they specifically? When were they first ‘them’ and not individuals?"
* [good challenges, bad challenges](https://jessicaharllee.com/notes/good-challenges-vs-bad-challenges/)
* [Camille Fournier tweet - the complete list of types of management problems](https://twitter.com/skamille/status/1304889995040362496)



#### Various personal stuff

Lots of inbox 0 -ing, unsubscribing from emails, fix weird contacts records, cancel Tuple (again), personal finance stuff, reply to ppl and alumni-related stuff, **biking**!!!

